Our Role: Data Analytics Consultancy Firm for healthcare

Target audience: Mental health organisations across the world

Suicide is a very serious public health problem, claiming about 800K deaths per year. Suicide is not just a loss of one individual, it may have big impact on the families, communities, countries and other related  people left behind. And recently, since a big proportion of suicides are happening in the age group of 15-29 years is a matter of major concern especially for countries who are trying to reduce the average age of the country's population. Suicides were labeled as an irresponsible impulsive action taken by some individuals who are going through some challenges in life and find it difficult to cope with them. But in fact, based on recent studies, suicides have been related to many parameters like financial problems, isolation, abuse, conflict, breakups among many others. 

The stimulus behind suicide attempts generally vary from country to country, and some of the factors might trigger certain age group towards this. If we could understand the potential reasons behind suicides it may be possible for the healthcare organisations to take  measures proactively and help reduce the frequency. In order to address this global challenge, we propose building a data visualisation App that would help healthcare organisations to visually explore the various factors contributing towards increased suicidal rates and take timely actions to mitigate that. The purpose of the App would be to provide an overview where the concerned authorities could filter and reorder the predictors as needed in order to determine the factors of interest for their concerned patients/communities and take action(s) accordingly.

With this App, regional government health organisations could look into the ongoing trends of suicides in the region and propose activities/ events. For example, if isolation has been the major cause in a certain area, then organising social events or groups (like hiking groups etc.) could help tackle that. 


 